The world is in chaos.
This system of things is disintegrating.
The world economy, health systems, security, governments,
and we know where this all is leading.
It is leading to the great tribulation.
Have you ever asked yourself,
do I have enough faith?
To face these fear-inspiring events
with the joy of Jehovah.
Well, we can learn much from the example of Habakkuk.
He lived in a similar time.
Jehovah inspired him to give this prophecy
about 20 years before the destruction of Jerusalem in 607 BCE.
Our daily text comments highlight three lessons
we can learn from the book of Habakkuk.
It says there,
never stop praying,
listen to what Jehovah tells us through his word and organization
and patiently wait on Jehovah.
So let us take those three points and discuss them briefly.
The first one, never stop praying.
Habakkuk in chapters one and two is engage the dialogue
with Jehovah God.
And if you look here,
in chapter one,
verses one through four,
he's asking Jehovah very intensely,
why do you allow violence,
doing oppression, injustice?
It concerned him very much.
Then Jehovah answered Habakkuk from verse five through eleven.
And Jehovah says something very interesting in verse five.
He says something will happen in your days
that you will not believe even if it is told to you,
for here I'm raising up the caldians, the Babylonians.
So Jehovah was going to bring Babylon
to bring judgment and punishment on the evil doers.
So Jehovah answered his prayer.
We also are affected by injustice, are we not?
A brother here at Bethel recently told me
that he was watching a news program
and the reporter was explaining all the obvious
and terrible injustices that were happening.
He said, it got me very tense.
I had to shut the television off.
But then he said, I talk to Jehovah.
Afterwards, he said, I calmed right down
and my confidence returned.
So prayer is very important.
It puts us in the right frame of mind.
But it doesn't end there.
We need to go to the next step that of listening
to what Jehovah tells us through his word
and his organization.
Now we can take the example from Habakkuk in chapter two.
He helps us to see a procedure, a process,
or an approach that he took.
First, in Habakkuk two verse one,
he says, at my God post, I will keep standing
and I will station myself on the rampart.
Then he says, I will keep watch to see
what he will speak by means of me
and what I will reply when I'm approved.
Do you see the two things he was doing?
He was keeping standing.
And the next thing, he was keeping watching.
So keep standing in this particular case.
He says, he will station himself on the rampart.
Now a rampart, in those days, it could often have been
a wall around the city, a huge strong wall.
So in other words, he was keeping himself
in a position of safety, first of all.
And then secondly, he watched to see,
he listened to what Jehovah was telling him.
Now as you know, listening has two components.
The one part is hearing, getting the sense of it.
And the second part is acting upon it.
So here, Jehovah was speaking to Habakkuk and verse two.
He answered him and Jehovah said,
write down the vision and inscribe it clearly on tablets
so that the one reading aloud from it
might do so easily.
Very interesting that Jehovah gives him an assignment
to write this down, but Jehovah also reveals
that he had in mind for someone to read it aloud,
to spread his message to others.
So we can follow that example of Habakkuk.
First of all, place ourselves under Jehovah's protection
on our rampart, as it were, under the mighty hand of God.
Don't leave that safe place.
And then secondly, listen, be ready to respond
to whatever Jehovah tells us to do.
So how do we stay in our place?
Well, we stay focused on our assignment.
We have work to do.
We must preach and teach and do our part
in the Christian congregation.
And we listen by being very carefully attuned
to God's organization, the leading we receive
from God's organization.
We cannot anticipate what is going to happen next.
Take, for instance, with this pandemic,
whoever has expected that.
But look how beautifully Jehovah's people,
his organization, led us through these very difficult times.
This now brings us to the third aspect,
patiently wait.
The reality is, matters are going to get far worse
than they are now.
And we shouldn't be surprised if our reaction is the same
as that of Habakkuk when he started anticipating
what was coming.
Let us read you back at chapter 3, verse 16.
He says, I heard and I trembled within.
At the sound my lips quivered.
My legs beneath me were shaking.
But then he says, the second part of verse 16,
but I quietly wait for the day of distress.
That reaction is not lack of faith.
But quietly wait as evidence of true faith.
Now, Habakkuk was not naive.
He knew what was coming.
He described here in verse 17.
The fig tree may not blossom.
No fruit on the vines.
The olive crop may fail.
The fields may produce no food.
So food may run short.
Property may be lost.
Standards of living may go down.
But the question is, how will we respond?
What will be our reaction?
Will we quietly wait?
And patiently, calmly?
Except whatever happens, even if the sequence of events
are not exactly what we expect him to be.
So what's the lesson?
The lesson is Habakkuk 2, verse 3.
Jehovah has an appointed time.
He says the vision is for the appointed time.
Keep in expectation of it.
It will not be late.
So what matters is not when the end will come,
how the end will come, but that we live a life
of faith doing Jehovah's will.
So back to the question, do I have enough faith
to go through the upcoming fear-inspiring events
and keep my joy?
Absolutely.
Habakkuk 3, verse 18, he ends the chapter, he says,
but as for me, I will exalt in Jehovah,
I will be joyful in the God of my salvation.
So what's the bottom line?
Pray, listen and wait patiently.